Nowadays, the debate regarding nuclear power is a burning issue: after the recent tragedy in Fukushima it is seen as a dangerous source of energy. However, in a context of global warming, others such as Patrick Moore (co-founder of Greenpeace), claim that nuclear energy is the only way to curb the human impact on climate change.

The main pros are:

It can help to reduce gas emission (A carbon power plant produces 6,5 million more tons of CO2 than a nuclear power plant produces).

This is a reliable source of energy: There is not risk of shortage in the following years. Uranium is evenly deposited around the world, and the actual reserves are estimated to last around 1000 years. Therefore, it is unaffected by shortage, political tensions or strikes.

The technology is already available and contrary to renewable ernergies, it is able to produce enough energy to replace fossil energy.  

It is seen as a safe energy: even if some tragedies happened such as in Fukushima or Chernobyl, these are sporadic event in comparison with the incident rate in coal mines, gas pipelines .

Fusion, currently tested in Cadarache in south of France, is likely to be the energy of the future as it is supposed to be unlimited and to produced no radioactive waste.

Finally, nuclear electricity is the cheapest form of electricity generation.

The main cons are:

Nuclear and radioactive accidents: After Russia, USA and recently Japan, it is the most important concern today. It is also reinforced by threats of terrorist attacks aiming at destroying nuclear power plants.

Even in normal conditions, the nuclear industry produces low level of radioactivity that are hazardous for inhabitants living close from the power station.

The difficulty to handle nuclear wastes: The wastes are stored in the underground but remain hazardous for hundred of years. In addition, nuclear waste treatment is really costly and have to be taken into account when calculating the cost of production of 1 kilo-watt hour of electricity. 

The investment costs and overrun costs are tremendous: For instance the first ERP built by Areva is more than 50% over budget, for a total cost of around €5 bn

Nuclear proliferation: Some countries are suspected to develop nuclear weapons using nuclear energy program as a cover. 